I want to share with you a winning system that will help you make the necessary changes in your life and explain one of the reasons why it works so well. 

Do you want to feel better? Do you want to work less? Do you want to make more money? Whatever is your goal, I will bet you will need to make some changes.  But for us humans, Change is HARD. 

So a few years ago I found myself hopelessly out of shape, let's face it, a middle age guy working in technology means I spent most of my days sitting on my butt.  Between lack of physical activity and the evil refrigerator tempting me with its delicious food, I was never going to win this battle. 

Luckily I stumbled upon this book called "Atomic Habits" by James Clear.  This book explained to me a winning approach to develop new habits that would guarantee a good outcome.  The winning system depends on atomic habits, which is developing a new routine that is small and easy to do.  These small changes seem tiny at first but compound into remarkable results over time. 

I was intrigued to say the least. 

As it turns out it wasn't hard to adopt the advice from the book and change myself, because the solution depends on a SYSTEM … let me explain. 

So what is a goal? A goal is a clearly defined objective that a person wants to achieve. A system is a process which facilitates progress towards a goal. 

Goal focused people often experience an emotional roller-coaster depending on whether the goal is achieved or not. Systems oriented people succeed every time they apply the process as it gradually moves them towards a goal over time. 

Systems win in the long run. 

So, my winning system required me to make tiny changes that would not be a pain in the butt to put in practice.  For example, I committed myself to take the dog for a brisk walk to get some physical exercise every day around lunch time, just 15 minutes at first.  That was relatively easy and the dog loved it too.   

The other part of this system is association of a small positive reward upon completion of the task.  For me it was having delicious coffee after the walk.  I like my coffee, and the thought of having it as a reward for taking the walk was the winning play.  This silly little change was the first step on my way to loose over 25 pounds over time. 