Do you struggle to find time to work on your personal to do list?  Do you feel like work and family is consuming all of your time? Is your to do list growing and growing with no end in sight? This can be incredibly frustrating but it doesn't have to be. 

I want to share with you a practical productivity system that will help you knock out some of these tasks and quickly shrink that list.  

Just like everybody I always have a list of tasks, todos both at work and at home and they have this amazing ability to stay filled up.  I will get a task or two done and then there is another task or two that magically appear.  This was incredibly frustrating to me, it seemed like I could never make any progress and frankly I hated the idea of having to work on the home list that just kept growing, I had enough of this at work already. 

I was tired of this never-ending cycle, so I decided to try a system based approach … let me explain. 

Let me begin by defining what is a goal? A goal is a clearly defined objective that a person wants to achieve. A system is a process which facilitates progress towards a goal and systems always win in the long run. 

Now completing a single task from the list was just a goal, but I wanted to develop a system to get more of these items done faster so that I would not have to waste lots of my personal free time during the weekends working on these tasks.   

So, I thought of using my work calendar to schedule all these home tasks throughout the work week in small 15 or 30 minute blocks.  For the bigger tasks like house repairs (so think paint touchups, fixing drywall) the idea was to break these up into small blocks to make it easier to complete them.  

This worked like magic.   

As a result of using my work calendar, it was easier for me to work on them during the day, at lunch time, early in the day or during the break from work.  Nothing felt like a burden given how brief these activities were. 

The other part of this system is association of a small positive reward upon completion of the task.  For me it was having delicious coffee or a small snack.  I like my coffee and snacks, and the thought of having one as a reward was the winning play.  These silly little rewards are super powerful.   

My todo list was shrinking rapidly, getting things done wasn't painful either, I could tell that the system was working. 