Learn how to stop being involved in every decision and help your team govern itself with three simple steps to follow. 

As a startup leader, I am sure you are looking to improve speed of execution for everyone on the team, but what if getting there seems to be a struggle. Does it seem like people can't seem to decide what to focus on next and you need to be involved in every decision?  

Do you know how to overcome this situation? What are the actual steps to take? 

I propose the following three step approach: 

First, identify and help the underperformers either improve in a short time frame or move them out of the organization.  It is difficult to let people go, but waiting for a miracle is drain on precious startup resources. Underperformers tend to slow down performance of the larger team and their adverse impact grows exponentially over time. You already know that A players do not work well with underperformers. 

Second, get the right people into the right seats. Consider moving team members around, if someone is better suited to be a leader then put them in the position to own the outcomes. Alternatively bring in fresh A level talent to put into those leadership seats, identify the best candidates you can afford to minimize learning delays.  

Third, give the entire team the tools to make sound operational decisions so that you don't have to be involved in everything all the time. Implement EOS, the entrepreneurial operating system or a similar structured approach to improve every aspect of your startup and to enable others to make better decisions themselves.  

By the way, if you find this interesting and helpful, please subscribe and like the video. 

With these three steps in place, you can run a lean organization that will operate with speed, agility and reduced waste. Your team will make sound decisions frequently and in the process minimize the dependency on your involvement.   

That buys you precious time to focus on the problems that matter the most!  

Now I wish I could tell you that you can always go back if this approach does not work out but that's not the reality.  Once you commit to this process you must follow through.   

Alternatively, you can consider doing these steps in reverse, so start by implementing EOS or a similar system first.  Use this structured process to level up the current team, you will no doubt see an operational improvement but ultimately you will need to part ways with some of the team members. 