Have you ever wondered what makes a small company grow into a giant corporation? How does that really happen? How did they become so successful? After all most people in our great nation work for small businesses.   

Today I am going to share with you a few answers to these questions and explain one of the keys that fuels the growth … let me explain.  

So a few years ago, I had an opportunity to work at very large corporation (one of nation's largest).  My primary experience has always been small SaaS startups and medium size technology organizations.  So working at a large org was quite the change, between endless meetings and reorganization efforts it was difficult to find time to do the engineering work.   
 
While working there, I started to research how each of the business units grew over time to try to understand their secret. 

As it turns out it's not a magic trick or secret, it's just one key concept, it's SYSTEMS … let me explain. 

So what is a goal? A goal is a clearly defined objective that a person wants to achieve. A system is a process which facilitates progress towards a goal. 

Goal focused people often experience an emotional roller-coaster depending on whether the goal is achieved or not. Systems oriented people succeed every time they apply the process as it gradually moves them towards a goal over time. 

Systems win in the long run. 

As I became aware I then started to look for systems applied across various business units to see how they were applied to achieve all the goals and sure enough, it was everywhere.  The most obvious system created was designed to facilitate onboarding people into the organization, focused on implementing a mindshare (aka light brainwashing) with constant reinforcement from plenty of ISMS, to be fair they were good and made sense.   

The idea here was to reset everyone's perspective to adopt a common set of behaviors that would allow everyone to rally around the outcomes.  When in doubt, one or more of the ISMS would be the tie breaker and would server as the clear north star for any decisions to be made. 

People joining the organization came from a wide variety of backgrounds, but I was amazed by how the system utilized quickly molded everyone's thinking to deliver conformity and rally everyone around the outcomes, we are talking about thousands of people over a two year time period. 

Now that is a system if I ever saw one. 

This one system had a profound impact on the growth of the company as it molded thousands of people to rally around growth outcome.

I was blown away, once you see it you can't unsee it.  With a bit of practice you will notice these types of systems everywhere, for example military.