Do you have trouble focusing? Are you constantly distracted by the phone? Do you have a million thoughts a minute and can't seem to focus on a task?  This experience is all too common these days. 

I want to share with you a practical solution to help you focus and explain one of the reasons why it works so well. 

So, I have a type A personality, always go go go and have struggled to focus on certain tasks going as far back as I remember.  Staying focused was especially hard when the activity itself wasn't challenging enough or simply boring.  So a few years ago I wanted to fix this permanently and began a search for a non-medical solution.   

That's when I stumbled upon something called binaural beats. Now, binaural beats is a multi-tone signal you hear with a slightly different frequency per ear. When you listen to it, your brain is forced to keep itself busy in order to process different frequencies. 

I found this intriguing and wanted to try. 

So, binaural beats are often associated with practice of meditation, a number of additional benefits have also been identified, reduced anxiety 
increases focus and concentration, lowers stress, foster positive moods, 
promotes creativity, and even manage pain.

I found a couple different apps for my phone, just search for binaural beats in the app store, most of these apps come preconfigured with frequencies often able to induce deep focus, relax your mind to help you fall asleep or even induce a particular mood. 
 
Now, I am a big proponent of systems over goals as systems always win in the long run.  So simply helping myself stay focused was a goal, but I wanted to permanently change my ability to be able focus with minimal distractions and almost instantly.  That means I had to create a system to get me there over time. 

So, I started with tiny changes and began to listen for about 30 minutes at a time every day. This isn't magic, most likely it won't work for you immediately, understand that you need to train and condition your brain over time and like with any skill, it takes regular practice to get better and that's the key to why it works so well. 

I started playing these beats when performing deep engineering work where deep focus was a necessity.  At first, I did not see any results, it took a couple of weeks before I noticed something happening.  I was able to enter the "flow" state a lot more frequently than ever before. Flow state is when you are in deep focus and its easy for you to perform complex work, its when the work itself simply feels natural and easy.  

I could tell that the system was working. 

Fast forward to today, I don't have to listen to the binaural beats any more.  My brain is now conditioned to focus at a moment's notice.  I do this every day whenever complex activity requires my full attention. 