I want to share with you a practical solution to improve your work life balance and help your team members better support you. 

Are you the go to person in your company? Are you the one that the other team members always come to for help? Do you feel like nothing will be done without you being involved?  Do you hate going to work because of this?  Life is hard with this kind of pressure at work. 

In my career I have often been placed in a position where other team members relied heavily on my expertise.  This reliance often morphed into an outright dependency and in the process, the work became a massive burden on my mental and physical health.  Being the go to person for all critical issues and projects was fun early on, but as time went it became a massive problem as nobody else wanted to step in, learn and assume more responsibility.   

I had to fix this permanently and do it fast.  Someone more mature gave me simple advice, learn to say "NO".   

Now, I was not comfortable with this at all, but turns out that setting boundaries actually helped everyone get better eventually … let me explain. 

Most people have trouble saying NO for different reasons, they don't want to offend others, hate to disappoint people, want to be liked, are afraid of missing out on opportunities, and desperately want to avoid any conflict.  These are all good and true reasons, but if you don't say NO then its as if you will give someone a fish instead of teaching them how to fish.   

Ask yourself, which is better?  

Of course, it is better to teach them to fish for themselves, therefore you need to say NO in order to set boundaries and force your team members to figure it out for themselves.  You can provide support and teach them of course, but let them do whatever needs to be done.   

Start small, if someone asks you to do a trivial task and you think they know how to do it or have done it before, simply say NO and pause, do not try to explain why not.   

The uncomfortable silence will be interrupted by the surprised team member, they will either ask why not or say that's ok.  

If they ask why not, say because it does not feel right for me to do it.  That's it.  Any other answer will solicit further conversation and you already said NO, hold your ground.   

Now, practice, practice, practice.   

Over time other team members will adjust their behavior accordingly and will only come to you when they really need you.  This will lessen the dependency on your time and a much improved work life balance.   

Of course you must coach them as need to help them develop the necessary skills so they won't need to ask you again.  This works very well, you can thank me later. 

Remember, the key to success is apply a system where over time you condition everyone else to accept the fact that you can and do say NO. There may be some few small gripes here and there, but people will modify their behavior and adjust to the new you.    